---
title: "Edit and create dbt models" 
id: use-canvas    
sidebar_label: "Edit and create dbt models" 
description: "Access and use Canvas to create or edit dbt models through a visual, drag-and-drop experience inside of dbt." 
pagination_prev: "docs/cloud/canvas-interface"
pagination_next: "docs/cloud/build-canvas-copilot"
---

import Prerequisites from '/snippets/_canvas-prerequisites.md';

# Edit and create dbt models <Lifecycle status='managed, managed_plus'/> 

<p style={{ color: '#717d7d', fontSize: '1.1em' }}>
Access and use <Constant name="visual_editor" /> to create or edit dbt models through a visual, drag-and-drop experience. Use the built-in AI for custom code generation in your development experience.
</p>

## Access Canvas

Before accessing the editor, you should have a <Constant name="cloud" /> project already set up. This includes a <Constant name="git" /> repository, data platform connection, environments, and developer credentials. If you don't have this set up, please contact your <Constant name="cloud" /> Admin.

To access <Constant name="visual_editor" />:

- Navigate to the left hand side panel.
- Click **Develop** and then select **<Constant name="visual_editor" />**.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/canvas/access-canvas.png" width="80%" title="Access Canvas by selecting 'Develop' from the navigation menu." />

<Prerequisites feature={'/snippets/_canvas-prerequisites.md'} />

## Create a model

To create a dbt SQL model, click on **Create a new model** and perform the following steps. Note that you can't create source models in <Constant name="visual_editor" />. This is because you need to have production run with sources already created.

1. Drag an operator from the operator toolbar and drop it onto the canvas.
2. Click on the operator to open its configuration panel:	
	#### Input
	- **Input model**: Select the model and columns you want to use. 
	<br />
	#### Transform
	- **Join**: Define the join conditions and choose columns from both tables.
	- **Select**: Pick the columns you need from the model.
	- **Aggregate**: Specify the aggregation functions and the columns they apply to.
	- **Formula**: Add the formula to create a new column. Use the built-AI code generator to help generate SQL code by clicking on the question mark (?) icon. Enter your prompt and wait to see the results.
	- **Filter**: Set the conditions to filter data.
	- **Order**: Select the columns to sort by and the sort order.
	- **Limit**: Set the maximum number of rows you want to return.  
	<br />
	#### Output model
	- **Output model**: The final transformed dataset generated by a dbt model.

	Currently, you can only have one output model in <Constant name="visual_editor" />, but in the future, it'll be possible to have multiple output models.
3. View the **Output** and **SQL Code** tabs. 
	- Each operator has an Output tab that allows you to preview the data from that configured node.
	- The Code tab displays the SQL code generated by the node's configuration. Use this to see the SQL for your visual model config.
4. Connect the operators by using the connector by dragging your cursor between the operator's "+" start point and linking it to the other operators you want to connect to. This should create a connector line. 
	- Doing this allows the data to flow from the source table through various transformations you configured, to the final output.
5. Keep building your dbt model and ensure you confirm the output through the **Output** tab.

<!-- 
### Configure nodes
- Built-in AI code generator

### View output
-->

## Edit an existing model
To edit an existing model, navigate to a <Constant name="visual_editor" /> workspace, click on the **model icon** button on the upper left, click **+**, and click **Edit existing model**. This will allow you to select the model you'd like to edit.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/canvas/edit-model.png" width="90%" title="Edit a model using the 'Edit a model' button." />

## Test and document

Testing and documenting your models is an important part of the development process.  

Stay tuned! Coming very soon, you'll be able to test and document your dbt models in <Constant name="visual_editor" />. This ensures you can maintain high data quality and clarity around how your models ought to be used. 

<!-- leaving this section here in case there's more to add later if needed
## Limitations
Are there limitations here?
-->
