--- 
title: "Navigate the interface" 
id: visual-editor-interface      
sidebar_label: "Navigate the interface" 
description: "The Visual Editor interface contains an operator toolbar, operators, and a canvas to help you access and transform data through a seamless drag-and-drop dbt model creation experience in dbt Cloud." 
pagination_next: "docs/cloud/use-visual-editor"
pagination_prev: "docs/cloud/visual-editor"

---

# Navigate the interface <Lifecycle status='beta, enterprise'/> 

<p style={{ color: '#717d7d', fontSize: '1.1em' }}>

The <Constant name="visual_editor" /> interface contains an operator toolbar, operators, canvas, built-in AI, and more to help you access and transform data through a seamless drag-and-drop dbt model creation experience in <Constant name="cloud" />.

</p>

:::tip Beta feature
The <Constant name="visual_editor" /> provides users with a seamless and visual, drag-and-drop experience inside <Constant name="cloud" />. It's available in private beta for [<Constant name="cloud" /> Enterprise accounts](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing). 

To join the private beta, [register your interest](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScPjRGyrtgfmdY919Pf3kgqI5E95xxPXz-8JoVruw-L9jVtxg/viewform) or reach out to your account team to begin this process.
:::

This page offers comprehensive definitions and terminology of user interface elements, allowing you to navigate the <Constant name="visual_editor" /> landscape with ease.

The <Constant name="visual_editor" /> interface is composed of:

- **Operator toolbar** &mdash; Located at the top of the interface, the toolbar displays all the node categories available:
	- Input
	- Transform
	- Output
- **Operators** &mdash; Tiles that provide source data, perform specific transformations, and layer configurations (such as model, join, aggregate, filter, and so on). Use connectors to link the operators and build a complete data transformation pipeline. 
- **Canvas** &mdash; The main whiteboard space below the node toolbar. The canvas allows you to create or modify models through a sleek drag-and-drop experience.
- **Configuration panel** &mdash; Each operator has a configuration panel that opens when you click on it. The configuration panel allows you to configure the operator, review the current model, preview changes to the table, view the SQL code for the node, and delete the operator.

## Operators

The operator toolbar above the canvas contains the different transformation operators available to use. Use each operator to configure or perform specific tasks, like adding filters or joining models by dragging an operator onto the canvas. You can connect operators using the connector line, which allows you to form a complete model for your data transformation.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/visual-editor/edit-model.png" width="90%" title="Use the operator toolbar to perform different transformation operations." />

Here the following operators are available:

#### Input

Input operators configure source data:
- **Input model**: Select the model and columns you want to use.

#### Transform

Transform operators shape your data:
- **Join**: Define the join conditions and choose columns from both tables.
- **Select**: Pick the columns you need from the model.
- **Aggregate**: Specify the aggregation functions and the columns they apply to.
- **Formula**: Add the formula to create a new column. Use the built-AI code generator to help generate SQL code by clicking on the question mark (?) icon. Enter your prompt and wait to see the results.
- **Filter**: Set the conditions to filter data.
- **Order**: Select the columns to sort by and the sort order.
- **Limit**: Set the maximum number of rows you want to return.
    
#### Output model

Output operators configure the names and location of your transformed data: 
- **Output model**: The final transformed dataset generated by a model.

Currently, you can only have one output model in the <Constant name="visual_editor" />, but in the future, it'll be possible to have multiple output models.

When you click on each operator, it opens a configuration panel. The configuration panel allows you to configure the operator, review the current model, preview changes to the model, view the SQL code for the node, and delete the operator.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/visual-editor/visual-editor.png" width="90%" title="Visual editor interface that contains a node toolbar and canvas." />

If you have any feedback on additional operators that you might need, we'd love to hear it! Please contact your dbt Labs account team and share your thoughts.

## Canvas

The <Constant name="visual_editor" /> has a sleek drag-and-drop canvas interface for creating and modifying dbt SQL models. It's like a digital whiteboard space for easily viewing and delivering trustworthy data. Use the canvas to:

- Drag-and-drop operators to create and configure your model(s)
- Generate SQL code using the built-in AI generator
- Zoom in or out for better visualization
- Version-control your dbt models
- [Coming soon] Test and document your created models

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/visual-editor/operators.png" width="90%" title="The operator toolbar allows you to select different nodes to configure or perform specific tasks, like adding filters or joining models." />

### Connector

Connectors allow you to connect your operators to create dbt models. Once you've added operators to the canvas:
- Hover over the "+" sign next to the operator and click. 
- Drag your cursor between the operator's "+" start point to the other node you want to connect to. This should create a connector line.
- As an example, to create a join, connect one operator to the "L" (Left) and the other to the "R" (Right). The endpoints are located to the left of the operator so you can easily drag the connectors to the endpoint.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/visual-editor/connector.png" width="100%" title="Click and drag your cursor to connect operators." />

## Configuration panel

Each operator has a configuration side panel that opens when you click on it. The configuration panel allows you to configure the operator, review the current model, preview changes, view the SQL code for the operator, and delete the operator.

The configuration side panel has the following:
- Configure tab &mdash; This section allows you to configure the operator to your specified requirements, such as using the built-in AI code generator to generate SQL.
- Input tab &mdash; This section allows you to view the data for the current source table. Not available for model operators.
- Output tab &mdash; This section allows you to preview the data for the modified source model.
- Code &mdash; This section allows you to view the underlying SQL code for the data transformation.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/visual-editor/config-panel.png" width="90%" title="A sleek drag-and-drop canvas interface that allows you to create or modify dbt SQL models." />
